♪ [music] ♪
If we open up our index.js and scroll down
to where we post to /register,
we're doing three things. We're validating
the registration data,
done. We did that in the last video.
Second, we're going to actually register
the user, or save them to our database.
And third, we're going to log them in.
So we've done the first piece, which is
validate register. Now what we want to do
is create the second piece, which is
actually save them to the database.
So I'm going to put these on their own
line here, and we are going to now put in
a second one, which is
userController.register. So
validateRegister, then we actually
register. Good. Then we'll open up our
userController, scroll all the way down to
the bottom, and we'll make a new method on
our exports, exports.register. We'll make
it async (req, res, and next).
The reason why we are passing next here is
because it's going to be a middleware,
right? The end of the road is not
register. The end of the road is actually
logging them in, and we are just sort of
in the middle here of actually creating
the user.
So we have this request response in our
next. Then from that we need to go ahead
and create the user. So we first need to
actually import our user.
We haven't yet actually imported it
anywhere. Oh, one sec. I see a little red
underline here in my ESLint. I'm not sure
if you can see it. Let me just bring it up
here. It says, "Unable to resolve path
module 'password-local-mongoose'.
So what that's telling me is that
('password-local-mongoose'); is not a
package. And what you can tell what the
actual name of the package is if you open
packages.json, and you look here. It's
passport-local-mongoose,
not password. So let's change that to
passport.
And then finally, let's also open up our
start.js, and remember I said that you
only ever have to import your models once?
Well, we've done that for store,
but we haven't yet done that for our
actual users. So we can just duplicate
that line, change it out with user. We
import our user model. So two things
there. We changed this to passport, not
password, and we also imported our model.
So let's change that down. Good.
Now we need to go into our userController
and get that model that we just imported.
Go to the top here, const capital "U" User
= mongoose.model. And we'll ask for the
user model. Why can we do that? Because we
already imported it in start.js.
And then we also need a library called
promisify, which I'm going to go into in
just a second. So we say const promisify =
require, and it's a library called
('es6-promisify');. Good.
Now let's go down to the bottom here. And
what happens when we actually hit the
register? Well, that means we successfully
passed this huge validation one,
and our request.body is filled with a
Name, and Email, a Password,
and then also a Confirm Password.
So we can go and start making our actual
user here. Say const user,
lowercase "u" = new capital "U" User. And
we just need two things here.
First, we need the email address, which is
stored on req.body.email.
And why? Well, go to our register. You see
the name of Name, and the name of Email,
and the name of Password? Those are what
the three things that we need are going to
pass in, req.body.name, req.body.email,
req.body.password. So we have the email,
and then we also need the name:
req.body.name.
Now we have that user. We haven't called
.save on it just yet,
and the reason is because we're not going
to call .save on it.
We're going to call .register against it.
And because .register is the actual method
that will take the password that we pass
it, and hash it, and save it to our actual
database. So well, where did .register
come from? Well, if we open up our User.js
model, scroll to the bottom here. Remember
we did this passportLocalMongoose plugin?
What that does is expose to us a method
called .register, which is going to take
care of all the lower level
registration for us.
You take your user model, capital "U"
User, and you call .register.
And you pass it your new user that you've
created, which is our (user variable here,
If that confuses you, just note that this
capital "U" User is our model,
and this lowercase "u" user is the one
that we are creating right now.
And then you pass it your password. So
that is req.body .password.
Good.
Now the third thing that you're supposed
to pass register is called a callback.
So you have a function here, that takes an
(err, and the actual user).
And then we will work. Now this is a
little bit weird because we've been using
async await for everything so far, but the
problem with this .register library is
that it doesn't return a promise. It's
callback based. And this is fairly common
for when you're using an external library
that doesn't use promises just yet.
Then you have to use either their callback
or...let's just get rid of this entirely.
We're going to use promisify library which
is going to take this older callback based
function and turn it into a promise based
function so we can keep using async await.
So let's show you how to do that. First
thing you need to do is make the method
that is promisified. So say const register
=, or we could call it
registerWithPromise. That's just to show
you that we're making a version of the
register method that is promisified. So
we'll just call it register for
simplicity's sake. And you take promisify
and you pass it two things.
First, the method that you want to
promisify, just capital "U"
(User.register). And the second thing is,
because it's a method,
(User.register), and not just a top-level
function, you need to pass it which object
to bind to, which is capital "U" User.
So if you ever are using this promisify
library, if the method that you're trying
to promisify lives on an object, you also
need to pass the entire object so it knows
where to bind itself to. So const register
= promisify. Now we have this register
method which we can await register. We
pass it our lower case user,
because that's what we're going to do. And
then you also pass it the password that
you wish for it to use. So it's
req.body.password.
Now what's going to happen there is it's
going to take the password.
It's going to take their email, and it's
going to take their name.
And it's not going to store the actual
password. It's going to store what's
called a hash in the database. Because as
a general rule of thumb,
or as a golden rule in the universe, you
never actually store a user's password in
the database, because if your database is
leaked, or it gets into the wrong hands,
or you accidentally screenshot some of
that data, or whatever happens,
you do not ever want your user's password
to be visible.
So what happens is, let's say your
password is dog123. The library is going
to take that password and encrypt it into
something that looks like this.
Now that, as far as you can tell, this is
the password that is stored in the
database. Now when you come along six
months later and try to log in with
dog123, it's going to also hash that
password into the same thing.
And then the library will say, if the hash
version we have on file,
this is the database, and the hash version
which they provided,
if they are the same thing, which they
are, then let them in. Tell them they are
logged in.
And if they're not, someone tries to log
in as cat123, they'll have another hash
that looks like this. Hitting my pause
button. It's going to say this hash is not
the same thing as this hash. And the
beauty of that is if your database ever
gets leaked, or you get hacked, or
whatever, then all the user will see is
this piece of information, which first,
they don't know the salt,
they don't know how it's been hashed. So
they can't really reverse it.
And second, you can't reverse these at
all. You would have to just make a list of
very long possibilities and see if they
match up. So that's the beauty of that.
We are awaiting our register here.
And when everything happens successfully,
we just call that next,
which we're going to "pass to
authController.login," which we haven't
done that just yet. But before we call
next, let's just say response.send,
it works. Give this a click on Register
here. Oh, I got an error.
Let's open up our terminal here. Got a bit
of an error, let's see what it says.
"Unexpected token open on index.js on line
38.index.js on line 38.
Oh, comma, comma dangle. Okay, there we
go. Give it a Save, refresh.
Okay, let's try signup now. My Name is
"Wes." My Email is "wesbos@gmail.com." My
Password is "wes," I confirm it as "wes,"
and I hit Register. And now it says it
works. Why? Because we posted our data to
register. We passed the validation.
We created a user and registered, and then
finally, we just say "it works!"
Now if we did that properly, we should be
able to go to our database tooling and see
that there is a new user in there. So
let's check that out. I'm going to open up
my MongoDB Compass Beta. Going to go to my
dang-thats-delicious database.
And oh, look what we have here. We got our
7 stores, we know about that.
But now we have our users table, which has
1 in it. Is that going to be Wes that we
just created? Well, let's go to our
Documents, and let's take a look.
Yes, here is the actual thing that we just
made, name of "Wes," email of
"wesbos@gmail.com." And then it has a
salt and a hash, which is going to allow
us to sort of store the password for that
user safely. And then of course,
every document in MongoDB has a unique
identifier along with it.
Now let's finally do the last part which
is we need to actually log them in,
because they validated it, they registered
themselves. And then let's just
automatically log them in. I like when
websites do that. After you've created an
account, you can automatically log
yourself in. So to do that,
we're going to create a third controller
called our authController.
And our authController is going to handle
all of the logging in,
all of our passport.js stuff, it's going
to handle all the passwords resets and
email sending. All that stuff that is
specifically related to logging in and
being authenticated rather
than just with the user.
So we'll go into our controllers here.
We'll create a new file called
authController.js. Then we need to import
one thing that's called passport,
const passport = require('passport');. And
again, passport is the library that we're
using to log everybody in. The one thing
that we haven't done is the ability to
send passport data and tell us if we
should be logged in or not.
And that's what's called a strategy in
passport. A strategy is essentially
something that will interface with
checking if you're allowed
to be logged in.
So there could be a strategy for Facebook
that's going to check with Facebook if
they have the correct tokens. In our case,
we're going to be using what's called a
local strategy, and a local strategy is
going to check if our username and
password has been sent in correctly. So
what we'll do is we're going to create a
middleware here. We'll say exports.login
=. Now this isn't the normal request
response that we're used to. What we're
going to be doing is we're taking
advantage of some of the middleware that
comes with passport. So we'll say
passport.authenticate. And you at first
tell it which type of strategy you want.
You say local. And you could also say
('facebook'), or ('github'),
or whatever it is. But we're going to be
using a local, which allows us to use a
username and a password.
And then the second thing that you pass it
is a config object that will tell us a
little bit of data about what to happen.
So first thing is, if there is a failure,
where should they go? So we'll say
failureRedirect. And if that is,
we'll just redirect them to login. And
then we'll also say failureFlash.
And if there is a failure, you should
flash the message 'Failed Login!' So
that's nice. If the passport is not
authenticated, it will just redirect them
and flash them. So that's nice, we don't
even have to handle any of the redirects
ourselves. We just tell it what to do. And
then we tell it some success stuff,
successRedirect. If they successfully go
to the home page, and then we also want to
successfully flash them. 'You are now
logged in!'
We've created our login function. Now
let's go and hook it up.
We'll go back to our routes in index.js.
We validateRegister, and finally,
we are going to authController.login. Of
course, we need to import that first,
so go to the top here. We have our
storeController, we have our
userController. So just duplicate that
line and take our user,
and replace it with auth. Good.
Then let's go back to our userController.
We still have this res.send,
it works. We don't want to stop it from
continuing down the line so we'll take
that out. Why? Because next we'll call for
the next one in line,
right? I know I've said this 1,000 times,
but we validate, then we register,
then we go to authController, which will
allow us to log in. Good.
I know this is a whole lot, but we got one
more piece to do, and that's that we
actually need to configure passport in
order to use local, right?
Because before you use any of these
strategies here, we actually need to
configure them in our application. So
before you use Facebook,
you need to give them the correct Facebook
tokens. Before you use GitHub,
you need to give them your OAuth tokens.
Before you use a local,
you need to tell it what to do with the
actual users once they've
signed in, right?
In our case, what it's going to do is it's
going to put the user object on each
request. So we need to create one more
file, and if we open up our handlers here,
we have errorHandlers. We're also going to
create one more file called passport.js.
And this is just a handler that will
configure our actual passport.
So we need to import passport. We need to
import Mongoose. We need our user model.
Then we simply say passport.use, and we
say (User), capital "U"
(User.createStrategy());. And the reason
why we can do that is because we've used
that plugin in our user.js.
Then we need to tell passport what to do
with the actual user.
Because what's going to happen is we're
going to log in to passport and it's going
to say, "Okay, now what? What information
would you like on each request?" And in
our case, we just want to pass along the
actual user object so we can do things
like put their avatar in the top
right-hand corner, and show the stores
that they've created. And we want to do
stuff specific to that user.
So we take our passport and we say
serializeUser. And we take the (User and
we say serializeUser());. And
passport.deserialize will do the same
thing, deserializeUser());. Good. So
again, what this will do is every single
time you have your request, it's going to
ask passport, "What should I do with the
actual user now that I've confirmed that
they are properly logged in?" We need to
take this passport.js and actually import
it somewhere in our application.
So we'll go to app.js. So we haven't
edited app.js yet, but we'll put it up
here, and we'll simply just require('.
/handlers/passport');, and that will just
invoke the code that lives inside of here.
You probably could have also done that
right in line here, but I like to have it
in separate files just so that we know we
are configuring everything.
Good, so I know that was a lot. Let's
actually go ahead and try it.
We'll click on our Register page here, and
we'll try create user.
Make sure that your MongoDB you refresh if
there's anything in there,
making sure you delete it, because you
can't sign up with the same email twice.
So Delete. I'm going to try to register.
Then we'll go ahead and try it.
"Wes, gmail." Now if this works properly,
what should happen is that we are posting
to register. So I validate myself. It
should actually register me.
And then it should log me in. So go ahead
and click on Register.
Woo-hoo, it worked! Look it, "You are now
logged in!" Good. And then it has
redirected me to the homepage because I
know that it has actually worked.
Good. And we go back to our MongoDB and
refresh, you see that that's our actual
user.
So in the next video what we're going to
do is we're going to actually hook up this
log out button. We're going to work on
getting our photo to show up here,
and a couple of other general housekeeping
stuff now that we have the concept of the
user being shown.
♪ [music] ♪